# BABEL-LOADER

Note: this is done on same folder! -- even with TS-LOADER, seems no conflict.

1. `npm i -D @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-typescript`

-   `@babel/core` the core stuff for babel
-   `@babel/preset-env` will allow us to use the latest JS features without manually doing everything!
-   `@babel/preset-typescript` allows babel to handle TypeScript

2. add `.babelrc` file ( rc stands for run command! )

-   .json file!
-   for presets: the ordering is **`important`**, it goes from last to beginning! in this case, preset-typescript first, then preset-env!

3. `npm i -D babel-loader`

-   downloads babel-loader, a transpiler for ES6 JS to normal compilable JS!

4. replace `ts-loader` with `babel-loader` in `webpack.config.js`

5. to be able to use TS syntax to create class properties

-   enable another plugin!
-   `Missing class properties transform.` this is the error we get! it makes the compilation **fail**

6. `npm i -D @babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties`

-   enables class props, this makes the error go away, no more compilation error

7. Note: p`reset-typescript` **DOES NOT** type check, it will still compile even if there's an error, so run `tsc` first

-   even with with the error, saying that we need a `STRING` and not a `NUMBER`, it still compiles successfully, not type checking. 😢

TO TYPECHECK!: tweak the `tsconfig`!

8. Tweaking `tsconfig.json`

-   adding `include` property! Just like we did in the TypeScript basics to include the files that will be type checked

-   in TypeScript basics, every time a TS file is saved it saves a file in the `/dist` folder because of `outDir`, we do not want that

-   since our code is compiled by `babel` & `webpack`, we don't want to produce any output from the TS compiler, we dont want it to save any files that it compile, we don't need it

9. Continuing, by adding `"noEmit": true` it just says don't produce any output, just type check!

10. adding more options in the `compilerOptions` in `tsconfig.json`

-   `isolatedModules`: if true, you must export | import something, it isolates a file and this option simulates that it is completely stand alone, it is isolated!

    -   we want this, because we do not want our files being connected to other files unexpectedly!

-   `esModuleInterop`: if true, you do not have to write `import * as React from 'react'` instead **`import React from 'react`**

-   `skipLibCheck`: if true, external modules are expected to be type checked already, so skip 3rd party library checks!

11. Keep in mind, if you have `isolatedModules`, you must import|export something, this works in our favor since React components must be exported!

12.
